```txt
Targeted Version: CommonMCOBJ V2 (March 2026)
Author(s): Mahid Sheikh (MCprep) <mahid@standingpad.org>
Last Updated: October 2nd, 2024 Common Era
Proposed Mandation Status: Required
```

# Texture Tint Proposal

This proposal aims to make it easier on plugins to tint textures in shaders according
to their in-game values. This does not aim to replicate biome colors, but rather
export data related to how textures should be tinted by plugins.

Right now, plugins have to create their own look-up tables for tinting textures if
they wish to not utilize textures exported by an OBJ exporter, such as when switching
to a different resource pack in the 3D scene. These look-up tables must be updated
for each version of Minecraft released and for the most part must be manually generated.
To make it easier, this proposal aims to bring texture tint colors to exported OBJs
in a table generated by the expoter.

## Common Header Additions

We propose the addition of an entirely new section to the CommonMCOBJ Header, which
would store mappings of materials to tint colors. This section would all together
would be a dictionary mapping a `string` representing the material name to an array
of 3 `int` values, representing the RGB values of the tint.

Unlike other values in the CommonMCOBJ Header, this wouldn't be represented by a
variable, but instead a section within the header, as shown in the following example:

```py
# COMMON_MC_OBJ_START
# version: 2
# exporter: example_exporter
# ...
# __TEXTURE_TINTS_START
# material_name: (R, G, B)
# ...
# __TEXTURE_TINTS_END
# COMMON_MC_OBJ_END
```

Like with other array values, the parenthesis in the mapping would be required.

## Setting Tint Colors

OBJ Exporters may choose to tint textures however they wish, so long as it best matches
exported world. Alternatively, OBJ Exporters may choose to tint textures based on
their tint in the inventory of the player.

## Plugin Support Requirements

Under this proposal, plugins utilizing CommonMCOBJ by default shall be required to
utilize the textures that OBJ Exporters provide with OBJs, should they exist. Plugins
may not use a different set of textures unless explicitly chosen by the user of said
plugin.
